Cpusets Mesos Module 

---

Mesos currently supports cgroup cpushare functionality.
According to GNU/Linux kernel and Mesos documentation 
(cpushare.hpp) cgroup cpushare functionality serves to, 

"Use the Linux cpu cgroup controller for cpu isolation 
which uses the Completely Fair Scheduler (CFS).

 - cpushare implements proportionally weighted 
   scheduling.

 - cfs implements hard quota based scheduling."

The cpu cgroup controller informs timesharing "cpu 
isolation" of the cpu amongst Mesos-instantiated 
processes.

This isolator aims to provide functionality that 
further constrains the Mesos cpu isolation story by 
pinning tasks to a set of cpu cores. This is 
achieved using the cgroups cpusets functionality.

Processing pinning or "binding" can, in some cases, 
mitigate performance penalties associated with process 
migration - a situation in which the GNU/Linux kernel 
may decide to move a process from one cpu core to 
another.

This isolator provides the ability to schedule gpu-
constrained tasks to cpu cores that have low latency 
to the ePCI bus.

The scheduling algorithm makes use of a modified
version of the submodular optimization technique 
described in, "A Class of Submodular Functions for 
Document Summarization" by Lin and Bilmes.

This module was developed to improve performance of 
Mesos instantiated processes that are multithreaded 
and cpu-constrained. 

Note - buyer beware!

---

This isolator may not be suitable for general purpose
Mesos utilization.

This isolator may be suitable for heterogeneous cloud 
environments in which some nodes have gpu resources or
large core counts.

This isolator includes a resource estimator which uses
a poisson model to guess cpuset requests. 

Future work/support plan

---

Implement a small set of scheduling algorithms that 
can support a variety of workloads.


Dependencies

---

The CpusetIsolator and CpusetResourceEstimator module 
require leveldb. CpusetIsolator stores historical
data as a TimeSeries object and caches that information
into a leveldb database which the CpusetResourceEstimator
uses for poisson modeling.

